The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
Natural language processing is fascinating.
In the immediate blinding agony of the aftermath, he remembered thinking, unaccountably, about the beasts of a certain zodiac.
But it wasn’t the one whose organization he’d once pledged allegiance to, whose many namesakes he’d piloted or otherwise controlled.
He supposed, when it came down to it, that it wouldn’t be completely out of character for one such as he to turn coat once more, cozy up and play false with a new menagerie of forms and entities, seeking meaning where it had surely run as dry as anywhere else he’d sojourned.
Is that what the little prince of old had been in search of as he traipsed through vacuum? Meaning? And, finding himself disappointed as planet after planet promised large and delivered small, he’d perhaps devised his own crash landing on Earth, thinking to collapse himself out of existence, but found instead (or, in addition?) a pilot slowly dying of thirst and exposure while attempting to repair the irreparable; a fox offering wisdom; and a serpent, comfort.
Later: Who was caring for him? he idly wondered, but not for long, because he very much wished they wouldn’t.
He tried to communicate to one of the silhouettes he supposed was medical staff that he didn’t want to protract his sorry existence, that they could stop burning resources on him, but the words came out of his mouth garbled and beastly, and no one paid him any mind in any case.
He could only lie on his back, and simmer while contemplating the vast tally of kindness that accrued objectionably with every passing hour.
His accounts would never be settled, would they?
He’d thought himself a worthy pilot, but here he was, illuminated and unflatteringly revealed in the harsh fluorescence of the medbay: a debtor bound in a prison of fresh linens and salves and unguents.
He wished for the little prince’s serpent.
A good friend, that: one who would bite, with or without the asking.
A worthy beast for the menagerie, he decided, before drifting into oblivion once more.
For him, there was no Before Christ nor Anno Domini; no After Colony.
There was only the endless striving of the time Before Blast, and the ravages of whatever passed as After, and the latter always begged the question: how long “after” should he keep up the farce?
To what end?
And at what cost?
Regardless.
One month after the blast, he found himself transferred away from the care of what he discovered had been a rag-tag crew of mechanics and medical technicians, all coordinated by none other than Yuy himself, who had been making himself scarce while overseeing work on the salvaged remnants of Epyon.
The nature of said work had remained carefully concealed from Zechs, though he suspected them of attempting its safe disassembly, given their inability to remotely pilot Epyon’s wreckage straight into the sun.
Whatever they intended, he didn’t care and he didn’t wish to pry beyond the brief glimpses he’d caught as he was escorted away from the medbay.
Thoughts of Epyon tended to provoke a strange and newfound vertigo.
To keep the resulting nausea at bay, he turned his thoughts to Yuy instead, who had only made his presence known when he, bizarrely, elected to join Zechs in the shuttle that would convey his battered, but now approximately serviceable, body down to an abandoned airstrip equipped with a derelict hangar.
Zechs thought he’d be left on his own, made to wait for who knew how long in complete and utter ignorance as to whoever was meant to retrieve him.
But astonishingly, Yuy then proceeded to exit the shuttle and wait with Zechs.
Side by side, they sat on a peeled and splintery bench in front of what had once, presumably, been the processing facility but now was no more than a ramshackle building holding its ground next to a small car park, facing the vast desolation of the strip, its only solace the slate grey blanket of clouds overhead keeping the punishing sun at bay.
The whistle of the wind layered over their silence.
They had made the shuttle journey in sepulchral stillness, exchanging no more than a brief glance of acknowledgment, and their time on the airstrip seemed poised for more of the same.
Which is why Zechs startled out of a drowsy musing on the odd parallels between one zodiac’s Taurus and the other’s Ox when Yuy quietly delivered a question.
“Do you miss it?”
For a moment, he was at a loss. “It” could compass so much and so little all at once. But he took a long while to consider the question in silence, and its nature became clear. In response, Zechs’ thoughts spiraled incessantly around the vision of Epyon hurtling towards a Taurus.
Noin’s Taurus.
Even now, he could feel the ghost of the certainty that Epyon had flooded him with: the sure and perfect sense that no price was too steep for the one who walked the righteous path; for the one who hurled himself straight and clear-sighted into the splendor of combat; for the one who understood, in purest form, that taking up the mantle of peace meant becoming the ultimate—that is, the final—weapon of war.
Even fresher, however, beat the pulsing terror of those last moments, when some shard of him had resisted the claims: insisted that the price was in fact so steep as to be incalculable; that there could be no splendor in slaughtering Noin; that no peace worth achieving could follow from horror.
As slim as that sliver of a shard had been, its exquisitely fine point had punctured his perfect clarity, weakened Epyon’s purchase on the darkest holds of his mind.
And that, only a hairsbreadth from the irrevocable.
The nausea returned violently, and he feared for a moment that he would disgorge the acids frothing in his gut right there, in front of Yuy.
He wrestled the surge of sickness into submission, and found an answer as he did so. “No.”
Yuy huffed.
He had been staring straight ahead, with arms crossed in that lazy tension that gave the impression of slack but promised only danger for those who knew how to look.
Now, he swiveled his eyes sidelong at Zechs.
“Lie again and I’ll let you wait by yourself.”
Zechs started to shrug, but suddenly found himself snarling despite himself as a spasm of pain tore down his neck and streaked along the sensitive skin of his marred shoulders and back.
He caught his breath, and let it out shakily, waiting until he could speak again.
He tried for a monotone, to mask the strain and the humiliation, but his voice came out ragged and harsh as he said, “I only lie by omission. I could say I miss being sure I was doing what was self-evidently right, but you’d all disagree, and even part of me rejected the claim and made me whatever pathetic worm I’ve become. And the worm can’t tell north from south, let alone right from wrong.”
I loved the characters in Turning Darkness Into Light.
This series of vignettes is my attempt to work out Aaron Mornett’s motivations.
I wanted to think through how he could simultaneously adore Audrey and also never have apologized for plagiarizing her work.
Note: Since the first chapter’s scene already exists in Turning Darkness Into Light, as recounted in Audrey's journal, there are some lines of dialogue reprinted and/or rephrased from the original interaction.
I've attempted to highlight the identical or near-identical text with bolding!
Not forty years ago, Dame Isabella Camherst earned a peerage as a reward for the discovery of the century, one that radically redefined scholarly—and, in fact, human—conception of Draconean civilization.
Rather than dragon-worshipping humans, the ancient Anevrai were humanoid draconic creatures, bearing the head and wings and tail of a drake but the arms and legs of a human.
The extant remnant of what had once been the most powerful civilization on the planet was discovered by accident, following an avalanche that trapped Dame Isabella within a  mountain-locked valley in Dajin.
Captive for months in what had come to be known as The Sanctuary of Wings, Dame Isabella adapted to Draconean culture—or, what remained thereof to modern Draconeans from their more powerful predecessors, the Anevrai.
Having acquired the rudiments of their language, a distant but faintly-recognizable relative of Lashon and modern formal Akhian, she learned of the great cataclysm that brought the lords of the earth and skies to their knees.
In their telling, it was a story of wanton slaughter.
Humans, who had once toiled as slaves to the Anevrai, had identified a substance that would kill Anevrai embryos upon contact with egg shells.
The mass murder of egg clutches weakened the Anevrai, and in their disoriented panic and terror, the survivors hid.
The only known remnant appeared to have survived by developing adaptations to the inhospitable climes of this nigh-inaccessible valley, ringed by some of the tallest peaks on the planet, the Mrtyahaima.
In the empirical work that preceded her momentous misadventure, Dame Isabella had established the leading theory of developmental lability.
This theory, which attempted to explain the origins of the wide variety of draconic species, appeared to similarly apply to Draconean development.
The shells of Draconean eggs responded to temperature, altering the developmental trajectory of the embryo inside as the clime dictated.
Many embryos would succumb to unfavorable mutations.
But a few lucky embryos would yield viable specimens who were more capable of weathering the new clime than their parents before them.
Having adapted to the harshly cold temperatures and altitudes of the Mrtyahaima—an exceedingly rare planetary clime—the vast majority of Draconeans from the Sanctuary became frail and physically strained in every other habitable region of the world.
The new generation was trying to change that.
Some pioneering mothers were opting to lay their clutches far outside the valley, in the hopes that their children would be capable of traveling easily beyond the remote confines of the Sanctuary.
This move, from a race of creatures who had once enslaved humans the world over, could spell disaster.
The Draconeans were a menace, to themselves and to the humans they would master, and they must be contained.
Public opinion remained very much divided on the matter, but the élite took their cues from the uptight and self-important Lady Trent.
As such, they were nearly of a voice, intent on placing them all in grave danger by insisting on free mixing between the species.
Aaron Mornett must tread lightly.
Aaron came from the lowest of Falchester’s strata, having raised himself—with reluctant assistance from Lady Trent’s erstwhile collaborator, Tom Wilker—from abject poverty in his youth to the heights of a Fellow by the tender age of twenty.
Now, a scarce two years after the greatest achievement of his life, he had incurred Lady Trent’s suspicion over academic fraud, and her unremitting censure for his Calderite views.
The former, he considered unwarranted. He felt himself entirely deserving of the credit for the article she claimed he plagiarized.
Aaron had been working on his own manuscript detailing the Draconean system of weights and measurements long before Lord Hinsbury had even thought it a question worth pursuing.
The fact that Aaron had not had his final draft ready prior to seeing Hinsbury’s was neither here nor there.
The further fact that he had seen fit to include some of Hinsbury’s notes in his own manuscript was also nothing to fuss about (though he did keep this to himself because these stuffy old fellows could be quite prickly).
The point was simple: Hinsbury didn’t need the publication; he was an established Fellow near in age to Lady Trent and had a very many published articles to his name.
Aaron, being young and at severe disadvantage given his precarious financial means and nonexistent esteem, very much did need any paper out he could get.
No one had the means to conclusively prove the claim to fraud, anyway.
Aaron hadn’t taken anything too noticeably alien to his own writing, and so the two manuscripts read differently enough that the clamor had died down, and the article had finally come out in print nearly nine months after his initial submission.
His Calderite views, however, were more conspicuous.
Orga Itsuka considers the shortest path, and how best to travel it.
You’d think that the best way to survive a dash through a narrow alleyway that had a slum boss leaning against each wall was to scurry like a rat: raking your belly against the floor, degrading your body below the bosses’ ability to care; moving fast and sleek and low.
Even better, in principle, if you just avoided the route entirely, went instead around the whole row of rundown shit houses, sped past angry grimy feet, found a crack or two or another alleyway, to get through to the other side.
In fact, the very best way to stay alive at all for the longest amount of time (again: in principle), was to just not try to get to the other side at all; to just stay put, stay still, keep the mind from even considering what was on the other side that had once, at some distant and foggy time, seemed so worth achieving.
But principles, he found more and more, are brittle, finicky things, and it made more sense to travel light when it came to them; to keep only a few ready to hand, like a single solid sidearm.
Leave the rest collecting dust somewhere, for other idiots to pick up.
Because sometimes, though the principle advised you keep clear, you knew the other side had what you needed to live, and staying put was just another way to say you’d rather die a slow, grueling, hollowing-out kind of death.
And sometimes, though the principle voted for the longer way, when you stood at the mouth of the alley, you knew the other side was just within reach, and you could see your enemies—shadowy, near-shapeless, but a boss is unmistakable, dimly lit or no.
Whereas the long way around had new and uncounted dangers you’d no sense for.
And who cared what anyone advised: if you can’t see it, you can’t really imagine it, and if you can’t imagine it, you can’t prepare for it.
And even worse: going the long way around meant you might get lost. Hopelessly, irreparably lost.
You might even try to get back to the nightmare alley, but by then you might be too far and too tired and too hungry to keep going, so you’d die just like the first rat, like the one that never moved a muscle, the one that didn’t try at all.
So: the shortest path, no question about it.
At the mouth of the dark and narrow straits, you could scent in the air what was yours by rights.
But the trouble with a born slum lord is he can smell a rat the second one scurries by—and he sometimes has quick feet.
So you could try all you wanted to slink by, to stay low, play at being too shit to be taken notice of—and you might still get fucking trampled for all your care.
At that point, the wilting rat might give up, the cautious rat would lose the thread on a long journey to nowhere, and the frantic rat would die crushed.
So maybe the game was in not playing as a rat at all.
Maybe the whole thing could be won by playing like just another boss: by noticing you had a couple sturdy legs to lift you off the ground, and just as much a right to saunter right on by.
The whole game might be in realizing you could decide to growl back at the one boss’ six snarling heads while making small talk with the shady seventh; all while dancing round and round with the other boss, until maybe—just maybe—you could distract them or lever them or whatever for long enough to leap out into the other side.
Battered and aching and not even whole, but alive. Ready to take what was yours.
Rats scurried.
Orga did not.
Would not.
Scylla is described as having 6 heads (not 7), in my copy of the Odyssey (the Emily Wilson translation), but there are 7 Gjallarhorn founding families (if I’m understanding the lore right so far), so Orga describes the Gjallarhorn “boss” as such (with the seventh head he chats with, of course, representing McGillis).
Charybdis is described as a whirlpool, the monster Odysseus is actually advised to completely avoid (“No one could save you from death then, even great Poseidon.” 12.106-109), and this I chose as the Saisei’s representation: Orga can only really circle around the periphery of this inscrutable beast—he (so far) has no access to the core.
How you doing?
okay good. How are you?
We just got the yummiest yummiest two bunch of pictures.
Two together?
No they came toge- no they came separate.
They came
uh-huh
a day or two apart
and they both came
What
uh-huh
oh I didn't mail them a day or two apart.
Good are they good?
yum yum
Who's coming?
I s- I stole a few
I stole a few
oh good
Wh- what whatever I took you had duplicates of.
Who's coming
oh, okay, I usually try to take two instead of
right
instead of ordering double prints.
yeah
so and there's one more that's
very cute
packed up in an envelope
and the playground and the haircut
you got the general idea
then the fan and
Hold on a second.
yeah she got into your fruits
yeah
Did um did the outdoor pictures come out fuzzy?
No, yeah not not great.
I don't know is it could there be a reason for that?
There could be I don't know what it is. It could be a lens doesn't adjust well
Because it's always the outdoor pictures.
right
and this I took a lot of outdoor pictures
But they're not all bad
I don't know.
oh really?
yeah
# ... more texts